AI Email Agent Security: OAuth, Encryption & Privacy · mcpemails
[meta description] Learn how mcpemails protects AI email access: live retrieval instead of email storage, encrypted credentials, scoped and revocable permissions, prompt-injection safeguards, and open-source code.
[meta og:title] AI Email Agent Security: OAuth, Encryption & Privacy · mcpemails
[meta og:description] Learn how mcpemails protects AI email access: live retrieval instead of email storage, encrypted credentials, scoped and revocable permissions, prompt-injection safeguards, and open-source code.
[meta og:locale] en_US
[meta twitter:title] AI Email Agent Security: OAuth, Encryption & Privacy · mcpemails
[meta twitter:description] Learn how mcpemails protects AI email access: live retrieval instead of email storage, encrypted credentials, scoped and revocable permissions, prompt-injection safeguards, and open-source code.
[alt] mcpemails
[alt] mcpemails
[aria-label] Primary navigation
Features
How it works
Pricing
Compare
Docs
Self-host
Blog
Sign in
Get started free
[aria-label] Open navigation menu
Security & trust
You shouldn't have to take my word for it
MCPEmails connects an AI agent to your inbox, so it has to earn real trust. This is the honest version: what the service touches, what it keeps, what it can never do, and how you can verify all of it yourself.
1. The short version
If you read nothing else on this page:
Your email is fetched live on each request and dropped the moment the response is sent. We keep no copy of any message body, subject, attachment, or contact.
We store exactly one sensitive thing per inbox: an access token or app password, encrypted with AES-256-GCM, so we can make the next call you ask for.
We never train any AI model on your email, and we never send your email to a model of our own choosing. Your agent is the only thing that reads it, under your control.
Access is limited by the credential you configure: API keys can be restricted to selected inboxes or allowed to reach all workspace inboxes. You can revoke provider access at any time from Google, Microsoft, or your provider's settings.
The code that runs the service is public. You can read it, audit it, or self-host the whole thing.
2. What we access vs. what we store
The gap between access and storage is the whole design. In the moment, the agent can read a lot, live. Almost none of it is ever written down.
Data
Accessed
Stored
Email bodies, subjects, attachments
Live, only when your agent makes a read or search call
Never written to disk, cache, or logs
Contacts / address book
Scanned live from recent mail when asked
Never. There is no stored address book
OAuth token or app password
Decrypted only inside an isolated function at call time
Yes, encrypted at rest with AES-256-GCM; key held separately
API keys you create
Compared as a hash on every request
Only a SHA-256 hash; the raw key is shown once and is never recoverable
Messages you schedule for later
Held until the send time, then dispatched
Yes, encrypted at rest until sent, then kept as your history
Tool-call activity (metadata)
Recorded for your own audit log
Tool name, inbox, timestamp, and status only. No email content
The one deliberate exception is a message you ask the agent to schedule for later. We have to hold it until the send time, so we store it encrypted in the meantime, then keep a record afterwards for your history.
3. You don't have to trust me, you can check
"A random person vibe-coded this" is a fair worry for any hosted tool that touches your email. The right answer is not a bigger promise. It is removing the need to take me at my word.
Read the code.
The server that runs MCPEmails is public on GitHub. You can see exactly what it keeps (an encrypted token) and what it doesn't (your mail).
Self-host it.
If you would rather not use the hosted service at all, you can run the same code on your own infrastructure with your own keys: a one-command Docker stack lives in
self-host/
.
Use a scoped, revocable connection.
You connect with OAuth or an app password that grants only mail access, and you can revoke it in one click from your provider, with no involvement from me.
Watch what it does.
Every tool call your agent makes is recorded in an activity log you can read, so you can see precisely what was accessed and when.
github.com/Albretsen/MCPEmails
And if a native connector already covers your provider and does what you need, use it. This exists for the providers and multi-inbox combinations they don't cover.
Run it yourself, trust no one (including us)
MCP Emails is open source under AGPL-3.0, and the hosted service runs the exact same MCP server you can self-host. That means "email is fetched live and never stored" is something you can verify by running it and watching the network, not something you have to take on faith.
Self-hosting is IMAP/SMTP-first: connect any mailbox with an app password, and your credentials are encrypted under a key only you hold. One command brings the whole stack up on your own machine.
Read the self-hosting guide
·
AGPL-3.0
4. The real risk: prompt injection
The honest threat here is not me reading your mail. It is a hostile email trying to hijack the agent: instructions hidden inside a message that try to make your AI forward, delete, or leak something. This is a real, unsolved problem for every email agent. I won't claim it's solved. I can show how it's contained:
Inbox access is configurable.
API keys can be restricted to selected inboxes, or deliberately allowed to reach all inboxes in a workspace. A restricted key cannot reach an inbox it was not granted.
Destructive actions are separated and flagged.
Sending and deleting are their own tools with separate scopes; deletion requires
confirm: true
. Whether a client presents a user confirmation is controlled by that client's policy.
Least privilege.
Connections request mail read and compose access, not account-wide control. Even a fully compromised token is bounded by the scope you granted.
Rate limited.
Every key is rate limited, so a runaway or hijacked agent cannot fan out thousands of actions unnoticed.
Not solved. Contained: irreversible actions are gated, and API-key scopes and inbox restrictions can reduce the blast radius.
5. How your credentials are protected
Your tokens are the only sensitive thing we hold, so they get the strongest protection we can give them:
All data in transit is encrypted using TLS 1.2 or higher. Connections that do not support TLS are rejected.
OAuth tokens and IMAP credentials are encrypted at rest using AES-256-GCM. The encryption key is held separately from the encrypted data and is never co-located with it.
API keys are hashed with SHA-256 before storage. The raw key cannot be recovered from the hash.
Database access is protected by Row-Level Security policies that stop one workspace from reaching another's data, even if a query is written wrong.
Administrative access to production infrastructure requires multi-factor authentication and is logged.
6. Google, Microsoft and provider verification
Gmail access uses Google's restricted scopes, the tier Google scrutinises most closely.
MCPEmails' use and transfer of information received from Google APIs to any other app adheres to the
Google API Services User Data Policy
, including the Limited Use requirements.
Outlook and Microsoft 365 access goes through Microsoft Graph, from an app whose publisher is verified by Microsoft, and asks only for a named set of permissions shown on Microsoft's consent screen: Mail.ReadWrite, Mail.Send, offline_access, openid, profile and email. For Fastmail, iCloud, Yahoo, Zoho, Yandex, and other IMAP providers, you connect with a provider-issued app password that you can revoke at any time, with no broad OAuth scopes for us to over-request.
7. Subprocessors
We keep the list of companies that touch any data short, and each is bound by a data processing agreement. Note what is absent: no AI provider is on this list. MCPEmails does not send your email to any model of its own. Your agent does that, under your control and its provider's data policy.
Provider
Purpose
Location
Supabase
Database, auth, edge functions
EU (Stockholm, Sweden)
Vercel
Website and dashboard hosting
Global edge, nearest region to user
Stripe
Payment processing (billing only, no email data)
US; PCI-DSS certified
8. Reporting a vulnerability
If you find a security issue, please report it. I would much rather hear it from you than read about it later.
Email
security@mcpemails.com
with details and steps to reproduce.
A machine-readable contact is published at
/.well-known/security.txt
.
I aim to acknowledge reports within 24 hours and to fix confirmed critical issues within 72 hours.
Safe harbour.
If you make a good-faith effort to follow this policy, do not access or modify other users' data, and give me a reasonable chance to fix the issue before disclosing it, I will not pursue or support legal action against you for your research.
Who runs this
One person: me. I'm Asgeir Albretsen, operating as Albretsen Consulting, a Norwegian sole proprietorship (enkeltpersonforetak), organisation number 926 646 753, based in Bergen, Norway. The commits are mine too, under
github.com/Albretsen
, so the name on this page and the name on the code are the same one. There is more detail on the
about page
, and the full legal identification is in the
terms
.
Everything resting on one person is a real risk, and the answer is not a promise that I will always be here. MCPEmails is public under AGPL-3.0 and the hosted service runs that same code, so if I stop, or you simply stop trusting me, you can clone the repository and run it on your own infrastructure with your own keys.
The self-hosting guide
is the whole procedure. I would rather be a named person you can reach and can leave than an anonymous vendor you can only trust.
Support and security mail does not go through a queue. It comes to me, and I answer every message myself.
Questions about any of this?
Ask me anything. I'm Asgeir Albretsen, and I answer every message myself.
Email security@
Read the privacy policy
[alt] mcpemails
A hosted MCP server that gives AI agents read and send access to your inbox, without ever storing the email it reads.
Contact
hello@mcpemails.com
[aria-label] Copy Contact
Copy
MCP endpoint
https://mcpemails.com/api/mcp
[aria-label] Copy MCP endpoint
Copy
[aria-label] Language
English
Norsk
Español
Français
中文
Product
Features
How it works
Pricing
Docs
Self-hosting
For founders
For business
Resources
Tool reference
Quickstart
OAuth connection
Provider support
MCP client setup
Blog
Changelog
Connect
All email providers
Connect any IMAP inbox
Connect Gmail
Connect Outlook
Connect Fastmail
Connect iCloud
Connect Yahoo
Connect Zoho
Connect Yandex
vs native connectors
Best email MCP servers
Company
About
Security
Status
Privacy
Terms
© 2026 mcpemails.
Email fetched live, never stored · Credentials encrypted at rest
MCPEmails is a service of Albretsen Consulting (enkeltpersonforetak), organisation number 926 646 753, Håsteins gate 9, 5160 Laksevåg, Norway.
[json-ld] {"@context":"https://schema.org","@graph":[{"@type":"WebPage","@id":"https://mcpemails.com/security","url":"https://mcpemails.com/security","name":"AI Email Agent Security: OAuth, Encryption & Privacy","description":"Learn how mcpemails protects AI email access: live retrieval instead of email storage, encrypted credentials, scoped and revocable permissions, prompt-injection safeguards, and open-source code.","inLanguage":"en","isPartOf":{"@id":"https://mcpemails.com/#website"},"breadcrumb":{"@id":"https://mcpemails.com/security#breadcrumb"}},{"@type":"BreadcrumbList","@id":"https://mcpemails.com/security#breadcrumb","itemListElement":[{"@type":"ListItem","position":1,"name":"mcpemails","item":"https://mcpemails.com"},{"@type":"ListItem","position":2,"name":"AI Email Agent Security: OAuth, Encryption & Privacy"}]}]}
