Self-Host an Open-Source Email MCP Server · mcpemails
[meta description] Run the open-source mcpemails server for IMAP and SMTP on your own infrastructure. Keep your encryption key, fetch email live, and never store mailbox content.
[meta og:title] Self-Host an Open-Source Email MCP Server · mcpemails
[meta og:description] Run the open-source mcpemails server for IMAP and SMTP on your own infrastructure. Keep your encryption key, fetch email live, and never store mailbox content.
[meta og:locale] en_US
[meta twitter:title] Self-Host an Open-Source Email MCP Server · mcpemails
[meta twitter:description] Run the open-source mcpemails server for IMAP and SMTP on your own infrastructure. Keep your encryption key, fetch email live, and never store mailbox content.
[alt] mcpemails
[alt] mcpemails
[aria-label] Primary navigation
Features
How it works
Pricing
Compare
Docs
Self-host
Blog
Sign in
Get started free
[aria-label] Open navigation menu
Open source, AGPL-3.0
Run MCP Emails yourself.
The same MCP server that powers mcpemails.com, on your own machine, against your own database. Your mailbox credentials never leave infrastructure you control. They are encrypted with a key only you hold and decrypted only in your container, at the moment a tool call needs them.
The whole thing in one command
git clone https://github.com/Albretsen/MCPEmails
cd MCPEmails/self-host
make setup && make up
Four small containers (Postgres, PostgREST, nginx, the Deno server). No account, no keys held by us, no telemetry. It runs
supabase/functions/mcp-server
unmodified: the exact code behind the hosted product.
Read the self-host guide
View the source
Your inbox never leaves your box.
Connect Fastmail, iCloud, Yahoo, Zoho, Yandex, or any IMAP/SMTP mailbox with an app password. Email is fetched live and never stored. Credentials are encrypted at rest with AES-256-GCM using a key you generate and keep. There is nothing to phone home to.
Self-host vs hosted
The full MCP server and all 23 tools are in both. Self-hosting trades managed convenience for total control.
Self-host
Hosted
Price
Free, you run it
Free, $9, $15, or $79
The MCP server and all 23 tools
Yes
Yes
IMAP / SMTP inboxes (app password)
Yes
Yes
Email fetched live, never stored
Yes
Yes
Credentials encrypted at rest
Yes, your key
Yes
Gmail / Outlook sign-in (OAuth)
Not included
Gmail: yes; Outlook: yes (work accounts may need IT admin approval)
Web dashboard (connect, keys, activity)
CLI instead
Yes
Scheduled-send dispatcher
Bring your own cron
Managed
Automatic updates, backups, uptime
You
Managed
Team workspaces, roles, SSO, audit log
Not included
Team plan
Support
Community and GitHub
Email and priority
Setup
About 5 minutes
About 2 minutes
Giving an AI your inbox, safely
The concern is legitimate. Here is how the design bounds it, self-hosted or not.
Least-privilege by design.
Every API key is scoped: grant read only, or send without delete. Destructive actions require an explicit delete scope.
Prompt injection is bounded, not hand-waved.
A hostile email can try to instruct the agent. Per-key scopes cap the blast radius: a key that cannot send cannot be tricked into sending.
Credentials are encrypted at rest
with AES-256-GCM. When you self-host, the encryption key is yours and no one else's.
Verify, don't trust.
The code is public under AGPL-3.0, and the hosted version runs it unmodified. Read it, then decide.
Self-hosting is a real commitment.
You run the IMAP/SMTP configuration, updates, and security yourself, and support is community-only. Gmail and Outlook sign-in (OAuth) and the web dashboard stay on the hosted product. These features need OAuth secrets and a session layer a single-operator install does not; for Outlook you would also need your own Microsoft Entra app registration. If you would rather not run infrastructure, the hosted plan is two minutes and free to start.
Use the hosted version
·
AGPL-3.0
Run it yourself, or let us run it.
Same server either way. Your call on who holds the keys.
Read the self-host guide
Use the hosted version
[alt] mcpemails
A hosted MCP server that gives AI agents read and send access to your inbox, without ever storing the email it reads.
Contact
hello@mcpemails.com
[aria-label] Copy Contact
Copy
MCP endpoint
https://mcpemails.com/api/mcp
[aria-label] Copy MCP endpoint
Copy
[aria-label] Language
English
Norsk
Español
Français
中文
Product
Features
How it works
Pricing
Docs
Self-hosting
For founders
For business
Resources
Tool reference
Quickstart
OAuth connection
Provider support
MCP client setup
Blog
Changelog
Connect
All email providers
Connect any IMAP inbox
Connect Gmail
Connect Outlook
Connect Fastmail
Connect iCloud
Connect Yahoo
Connect Zoho
Connect Yandex
vs native connectors
Best email MCP servers
Company
About
Security
Status
Privacy
Terms
© 2026 mcpemails.
Email fetched live, never stored · Credentials encrypted at rest
MCPEmails is a service of Albretsen Consulting (enkeltpersonforetak), organisation number 926 646 753, Håsteins gate 9, 5160 Laksevåg, Norway.
